DEAR FELLOW SHAREHOLDER: 
U.S. health care costs are expected to rise 6 percent annually over the next decade, pushing the total spent in the United States to around $5 trillion in 2020. The alarming growth of chronic disease in an aging U.S. population will drive much of this increase, and companies that can find a way to help employers, insurers, and plan members rein in the related costs are poised to benefit. At CVS Caremark, we see a significant opportunity to reduce the nearly $300 billion that is spent annually as a result of non-adherence to prescribed medications and other forms of sub-optimal pharmacy care. As the nation’s largest pharmacy health care provider, we can accomplish this through our differentiated PBM offerings, our leadership in clinical programs and specialty pharmacy, our unmatched retail footprint, and our growing base of MinuteClinic locations. Our strategy is to utilize these elements of our integrated pharmacy services model to lower health care costs while improving the health of those we serve. It’s important to remember that pharmacy care remains one of the most cost-effective ways of treating disease, so we are well-positioned to slow the rise in health care costs even as we encourage appropriate utilization of prescription drugs. We’ll have more to say on this topic and the state of our business in general. Let’s start, though, with a quick overview of the past year’s performance. Our 2010 Financial Performance and Commitment to Enhancing Shareholder Value 2010 marked a year of substantial progress for our company despite continued challenges in the broader economy. We successfully navigated through a challenging retail and consumer environment, delivering industry-leading same-store sales growth, solid expense control, and significantly improved retail operating margins. However, we faced some well-documented challenges in our PBM business, and we are disappointed with our performance. Total revenue decreased 2.3 percent to $96.4 billion, with income from continuing operations down 7.2 percent to $3.4 billion. We will talk more about the steps we are taking to turn around PBM performance.
CVS Caremark shares returned 7.9 percent in 2010, trailing the 12.8 percent return of the S&P 500 Index. Our below-market share performance is unacceptable, and enhancing shareholder returns remains a top priority for us. Accordingly, we returned more than $1.9 billion to our shareholders last year through a combination of share repurchases and dividends. We were able to accomplish this as a result of the $3.3 billion in free cash flow we generated in 2010, a 7.6 percent increase over 2009. We expect our cash-generation capabilities to increase substantially in the coming years due to anticipated earnings growth and a sweeping initiative to reduce working capital. We will take a disciplined approach to deploying the substantial cash we generate to achieve the highest possible return for our shareholders. We will invest in high-return projects and expect to continue returning value to our shareholders in the form of dividends and value-enhancing share repurchases. To that end, we recently raised our dividend by 43 percent, making this our eighth consecutive year with a dividend increase. We also expect to complete our $2 billion authorized share repurchase during 2011. Long-Term Agreement with Aetna Highlights Strong 2011 PBM Selling Season As we said, we have begun to take steps to turn around the performance of our PBM. After experiencing contract losses in the 2010 PBM selling season, we undertook a series of steps to stabilize and grow our PBM, and position the business for long-term success. We re-established momentum in the 2011 selling season and are very pleased with our progress to date. Our client satisfaction rate remained high and we saw a 97 percent retention rate during the season. We also added a significant amount of net new business, with revenues totaling approximately $9.4 billion. The 2012 selling season is off to a good start as well. Clients are enthusiastic about our differentiated offerings, which enjoyed positive momentum in the 2011 selling season. Maintenance Choice®, which gives plan participants the option of filling their 90-day maintenance prescriptions by mail or at one of our convenient retail locations, has been adopted by approximately 600 clients representing 7.4 million lives. Our generic step therapy programs have been adopted by 170 clients representing 5.5 million lives. Our newest addition, the Pharmacy AdvisorTM program, has already been adopted by PBM clients representing more than 10 million lives, or approximately 20 percent of our  PBM book of business. The 12-year agreement we landed in July to provide Aetna with a broad range of PBM services marked a watershed for our company. The result of an extensive competitive bidding process, it provides significant validation of our core PBM capabilities as well as the benefits we bring to the table through our integrated model. Once fully implemented, CVS Caremark® will serve approximately 9 million Aetna PBM members and administer approximately $9 billion in annual drug spending. In addition to taking over management of Aetna’s retail pharmacy network as well as pharmacy customer and member service functions, CVS Caremark will also handle purchasing, inventory management, and prescription fulfillment for Aetna’s mail-order and specialty pharmacy operations. We see significant  upside opportunity from this relationship over time,  as we work together to offer our unique products that will help lower overall health care costs and improve health outcomes for members We Are Streamlining Operations and Are Strategically Positioned in High-Growth Businesses While we expect to see a decline in PBM operating profit in 2011, we are optimistic about our PBM’s long-term prospects and believe we are well-positioned to navigate the challenges and opportunities facing the industry in the coming years. Among our priorities, we have begun implementing a PBM streamlining initiative to improve our workflow and align our cost structure more closely with peers. The PBM, much like CVS on the retail side, went through significant acquisition activity over the past decade, and there are still many opportunities to build a more cohesive, efficient, and streamlined organization. This PBM initiative is expected to deliver more than $1 billion in savings between 2011 and 2015. We also have all the capabilities in place to increase our revenues and expand our market share. For example, let’s take a look at specialty pharmacy. We currently generate more than $11 billion in specialty pharmacy revenue annually, making us the largest specialty pharmacy provider in the U.S. Through our industry-leading Specialty Guideline Management program, we facilitate appropriate utilization across disease states and help clients control their specialty spending. Specialty is also the fastest-growing pharmacy sector, with a compound annual growth rate of approximately 12 percent expected over the next five years. CVS Caremark is also a very significant player in the Medicare Part D business, one of the fastest-growing areas of the PBM space. While our 2010 results reflect the negative impact from a disappointing Medicare Part D competitive bidding process for the 2010 plan year and regulatory changes that reduced our profitability, we view Medicare Part D as an integral part of our long-term strategy. A growing portion of the population will receive its prescription drug coverage under Medicare plans, driven by age demographics and the anticipated shift of retirees from employer-based coverage to Medicare. In fact, we expect the Medicare Part D market to grow 8.5 percent annually, on average, from 2010 through 2020. Our size and capabilities position us to capitalize on this opportunity, and we have a dedicated group with new leadership to focus our efforts. In anticipation of this continued growth, we recently announced an agreement to acquire Universal American’s Medicare Part D business for approximately $1.25 billion. This transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval, as well as approval by Universal American shareholders. Upon closing, it would more than double the size of our prescription drug plan (PDP) business to more than three million members and make us a strong #2 player in Medicare Part D. The deal is expected to close at the end of the second quarter of 2011. We expect to benefit from the addition of Universal American’s Medicare Advantage Prescription Drug Plan (MA-PD) insurance business beginning in 2011 and to begin servicing the PBM contracts for both the PDP and Universal American’s MA-PD business beginning in January 2012. Pharmacy Advisor Utilizes Our Retail Footprint to Improve Care and Control Costs We are very excited about the rollout of our Pharmacy Advisor program early in 2011. It will help us add value for our PBM clients and improve the health of plan members. Leveraging our retail presence—unique among major PBMs—we can offer chronically ill patients the benefit of face-to-face counseling in our pharmacies to improve their medication adherence rates and close gaps in care. Based on our research and the pilot program for diabetes patients that we completed in 2010, in-store counseling helps close gaps in care at nearly twice the rate of phone counseling alone. Using Pharmacy Advisor, a PBM client with 50,000 employees whose population has an average prevalence of diabetes could save approximately  $3.3 million a year in medical expenditures. We’ve spent the past three years developing and implementing the technology that makes Pharmacy Advisor possible. Utilizing clinical rules, our Consumer Engagement Engine identifies cost savings or health improvement opportunities for PBM plan members whether they interact with us at our retail and specialty pharmacies, through our mail order pharmacies, or using our Web sites. We’ve made diabetes intervention our initial priority. In the future, Pharmacy Advisor will also address issues related to coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and other chronic illnesses. Our MinuteClinic Offerings and Footprint Will Expand to Meet Growing Demand Our 560 MinuteClinic locations represent another important aspect of our unique value proposition. Non-flu vaccination visits to MinuteClinic increased by 22 percent in 2010. We have really focused our efforts over the past year at bringing new products and  services to market that help manage chronic conditions. We expect to incorporate these new capabilities into our PBM plan offerings. As we move into the care of patients with chronic disease, we have also established formal affiliations with some of the country’s leading health systems to collaborate on patient care. We expect health care reform to bring some form of  coverage to 32 million people who are currently uninsured. MinuteClinic will help meet the growing demand for care and mitigate the growing shortage of primary care physicians. We will begin adding approximately 100 new clinics annually over the next five years. We will start by filling in existing markets as well as adding new markets in existing states, with plans to enter new states beginning in 2012. Industry-Leading Performance Across Several Measures Characterizes the Year in Retail Our retail stores continued to outperform competitors and gain share in 2010, and we expect a similar outcome in 2011. We led the industry with 2.1 percent same-store sales growth; 2.9 percent in the pharmacy and 0.5 percent in the front of the store. We also outperformed all drugstore chains in sales per square foot and profitability measures. 
We opened 285 new or relocated stores in 2010. Factoring in closings, net units increased by 152 stores, which equates to 2.9 percent retail square footage growth. Over the next three years, we expect to add approximately 150 net new stores annually. That would increase our retail square footage growth each year by 2 to 3 percent. CVS/pharmacy ® entered nine new markets over the past two years, and results have exceeded our expectations. In 2010 alone, we opened our first stores in Memphis, Omaha, St. Louis, and Puerto Rico. 
As we accomplished with earlier acquisitions, we have improved the performance of the Longs Drugs® stores we purchased in 2008 across several key financial metrics. By leveraging our systems, our focus on store brands, our category mix, and our ExtraCare® loyalty card, profitability in the Longs stores has improved significantly. In addition, average store prescription volumes have increased by more than 5 percent. Given the much larger retail footprint and sales mix of the acquired stores, we do not expect them to match the sales productivity of our core CVS/pharmacy locations. That said, we see significant upside and expect to close the gap further over the next several years.
In the front of the store, our ambitious store brand program generated more than $3 billion in sales in 2010. Store brands now account for 17 percent of our front-end total, and we believe that penetration can reach more than 20 percent in the next two to three years. From over-the-counter drugs to grocery items, we offer more than 5,000 store brand items that are less expensive for shoppers and help create loyalty. They provide us with higher margins as well. Their excellent value has certainly appealed to consumers in this challenging economic environment. Moreover, many of our store brand offerings are far more than just “me too” versions of national brands. We’ve actually introduced products that either have no national-brand equivalent or offer innovative packaging that appeals to more than the just the price-sensitive shopper. We expect to add around 900 new store brand offerings in 2011.
The ExtraCare loyalty program remains one of the main drivers of our industry-leading performance in the front of the store. The largest loyalty program among all U.S. retailers, it now boasts more than 67 million active cardholders. In 2010, they received $3.2 billion in ExtraCare savings and Extra Bucks ® rewards. 
Our 10 years of experience working with ExtraCare enables us to fine tune our promotional programs and spend our advertising dollars most efficiently and effectively. It also helps us tailor our merchandise mix to best suit customers’ needs and improve productivity. We are currently developing some new customized store layouts based on our research and have already reconfigured several locations. In our “urban cluster” stores, where the front end can exceed 40 percent of sales, we have added assisted self-checkouts to improve checkout speed and expanded certain categories such as baby and grocery. We have converted more than 200 such stores to date. The early results are promising, with trips, sales, and margins all up significantly. We are in testing phase with two additional clusters and look forward to sharing more information on our results as we delve further into this opportunity for future growth.
In closing, we operate in a dynamic and growing industry. Over the past few years, we have set up  an infrastructure that will position the company to be  very productive for years to come. We want to take  this opportunity to thank our colleagues for their 
dedication and hard work. We have a sense of urgency, an engaged workforce, the right assets, and the right technology. We are extremely well-positioned to play an important role in the evolving U.S. health care market, and we are committed to driving strong growth and returns to shareholders. On behalf of our Board of Directors and our 201,000 devoted associates across the nation, thank you for your continued support.
