DEAR FELLOW SHAREHOLDERS:
2011 was a year of great accomplishment for our company. We set challenging – yet achievable – goals and delivered on our promises. We executed successfully on a number of initiatives across the enterprise, reporting solid results in a difficult environment.
Our retail business continued to experience solid top- and bottom-line growth, and we achieved steady share gains. Our pharmacy benefit management, or PBM, business enjoyed strong revenue growth, another very successful selling season for 2012, and significant progress on a number of key initiatives. MinuteClinic® continued expansion of its footprint and services and reached breakeven profitability at the end of the year, as we expected. And our unique integrated offerings are evolving and gaining significant traction in the marketplace. As we close the chapter on 2011 and look forward to what lies ahead, we are optimistic that we can deliver even better results in 2012.
The current health care landscape presents a number of challenges that we see as opportunities. Among them, overall health care costs will continue to increase, a scenario that will be intensified by an aging population. Exacerbating this problem is an insufficient focus on lower-cost solutions such as preventive care and prescription drug adherence. Consumers also are taking on greater accountability for their health care, as direct-to-consumer markets grow and employers shift more and more costs onto their employees. Moreover, the current shortage of primary care doctors, combined with a growing demand, will result in a major physician shortage. Our suite of assets is very well aligned to address and bring solutions to these issues.
We’ve integrated our industry-leading PBM business, retail pharmacies, and retail health clinics with the following goals in mind:
To provide greater access, convenience, and choice to pharmacy care;   To deliver solutions that improve the health of those we serve; and
To lower the overall cost of health care. 
By capitalizing on CVS Caremark’s best-in-class businesses as well as the power of our combined entity – what we call our “integration sweet spots” – we are well-positioned to deliver on our goal of reinventing pharmacy for better health ... and better shareholder value. As our strategies have advanced and taken hold in the marketplace, we are very excited about the results of our efforts. Before getting into more detail on that, I want to provide a quick overview of the past year’s performance.
2011 Saw Strong Revenue and Earnings Gains Coupled with Record Free Cash Flow
Net revenues increased 11.8 percent to a record $107.1 billion in 2011, with Adjusted EPS rising  5.9 percent excluding the three-cent per share tax  benefit in the prior year. CVS Caremark shares returned 18.9 percent, significantly outpacing our retail pharmacy and PBM peers as well as the broader  S&P 500 Index and Dow Jones Industrial Average. 
We are extremely pleased with our performance and highly focused on further enhancing shareholder value. Our roadmap for accomplishing that consists of three main pillars: 
Driving productive, long-term growth;
Generating significant levels of free cash; and 
Adhering to our disciplined capital allocation strategy.
We generated $4.6 billion in free cash flow in 2011, a 39 percent increase over 2010’s level.  
In total, we returned $3.7 billion to our shareholders last year – nearly double 2010’s total – through $3 billion in share repurchases and a 43 percent dividend increase. With our steady state earnings targets, we expect free cash flow to increase substantially over the next several years. We plan to use our available cash to invest in opportunities that will enhance our returns, to repurchase shares, and to continue to increase our dividend with a targeted payout ratio of 25 to 30 percent by 2015.
Our PBM Enjoyed High Client Retention Rates with Significant New Contracts Awarded
In our PBM business, our deep clinical expertise allows us to deliver a wide spectrum of best-inclass services and innovative plan designs for our clients and their members. Our specialty pharmacy is an industry leader, and our Medicare Part D prescription drug plans make us a strong No. 2 player in this fast-growing space. 
Our PBM business made tremendous strides over the past year. Our client retention rate for 2012 is approximately 98 percent while our book of business grew significantly. Our 2012 selling season yielded more than $7 billion in net new sales along with another $5.5 billion related to PBM contracts that came with our 2011 purchase of Universal American’s Medicare Part D business. In fact, when we combine the 2011 and 2012 selling seasons with the Universal American acquisition, we have increased our book of business by 50 per- 
 cent compared with 2010. At the same time, we have been successfully executing the PBM streamlining initiative we announced last year, 
“ which is expected to save us more than $1 billion cumulatively through 2015.
Our specialty pharmacy revenue has risen by more than 17 percent annually over the past two years and is expected to account for $15 billion in sales in 2012. We stand to benefit from this sector’s robust R&D pipeline and have numerous offerings that help PBM clients manage their specialty spending more effectively.
The government is rapidly emerging as the major payor for prescription drugs in the United States. Forecasts vary, but Medicare and Medicaid could be paying for as much as two-thirds of all U.S. prescriptions by 2020, up from approximately  one-third today. Our integrated business model is very well-positioned to serve these populations. We are focused on building a leadership position in the Part D business and investing in state-ofthe-art systems to handle its challenging regulatory requirements and complex benefit designs.
We’re Reinventing the Role of Our Retail Pharmacists, Leading in Adherence, and Gaining Share
Our focus on superior customer service, increased access, and patient care improvements continued to drive share gains in our retail pharmacies. Pharmacy same-store sales increased 3.1 percent in 2011. That pushed CVS/pharmacy’s share of the total U.S. retail prescription market to 19.5 percent, up nearly six percentage points since 2004.
Much of the credit goes to the evolving role of our pharmacists, who have seen their traditional role as dispensers of medications expand greatly to 
focus on providing broader health care services. Today, CVS pharmacists are trained to administer vaccinations and to consult with patients on opportunities to improve adherence, close gaps in care, and lower their costs. Based on our data, CVS/pharmacy now has the highest adherence rate among top U.S. pharmacy retailers. This is critical because non-adherence – that is, not refilling prescriptions or not refilling them on time – costs the U.S. health care system an estimated $300 billion annually in avoidable health care costs.
Our pharmacies also have the highest generic dispensing rate, or GDR, in our industry, which is helping PBM clients and patients save money. Although the lower prices of generic drugs can exert a drag on revenue growth, their greater margins help drive profitability. We see significant opportunities on the horizon to further increase our GDR. In 2012 alone, approximately $35 billion of branded drug sales will lose patent protection. 
Our ExtraCare® Loyalty Program, Clustering Initiatives, and Store Brands Remain Key Drivers of Front-Store Profitability 
Our front-store business also turned in another year of solid performance in a weak economy, with front-store same-store sales increasing 0.8 percent. Introduced back in 2001, our ExtraCare loyalty program provides us with a powerful competitive advantage. The largest and most successful retail loyalty program, it has more than 67 million active households and currently accounts for approximately 85 percent of our front-store sales. ExtraCare enables us to execute a targeted front-store promotional strategy and drive more profitable sales. We also leveraged the deep customer insights gained through ExtraCare to launch our store clustering initiative in 2009. To date, we have remodeled more than 4,000 stores to tailor our merchandise mix based on the way our stores are shopped in certain locations. We have rolled out two different clusters thus far – food convenience and urban – and are seeing revenue and profitability increases in each. In 2012, we will expand our store segmentation approach by rolling out additional cluster prototypes that will enable us to customize our store fleet and meet the unique needs of each store’s customer base.
The store brand category, which now accounts for approximately 17.5 percent of front-store sales, represents another growth driver in the front of our stores. These products are less expensive for shoppers, help create loyalty, and provide us with higher margins. We believe that store brands can reach 20 percent of front-store sales over the next few years, and we are adding hundreds of new products every year. 
Our real estate program continued on pace as we opened 247 new or relocated stores. Factoring in closings, net units increased by 145 stores. That equates to 2.6 percent retail square footage growth, consistent with the level of the past several years. 
MinuteClinic Has Broadened Its Scope and Forged Key Strategic Alliances
We now operate approximately 600 MinuteClinics, most of which are in CVS/pharmacy stores across 25 states, with that number expected to rise to 1,000 by 2016. We believe MinuteClinic will play 
an important role in addressing some of the cost challenges related to health care in this country, as well as access issues resulting from the national shortage of primary care physicians. This situation will only be exacerbated when 32 million Americans obtain health insurance beginning in 2014 through health care reform. 
MinuteClinic has been expanding its scope of services to focus more on preventive care and monitoring for chronic conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, and high cholesterol. We are also partnering on patient education and disease management initiatives through the formal affiliations we’ve established with some of the nation’s leading health systems. Taken together, these health systems represent more than 125 hospitals and 35,000 physicians. As part of our clinical collaboration, some of these doctors now serve as medical directors for their local MinuteClinics. We are integrating our electronic medical records with those affiliated health systems and, in the future, we expect to play a collaborative role with the Accountable Care Organizations that are an outgrowth of health care reform.
The collaboration of MinuteClinic with our PBM represents just one of our integration “sweet spots,” allowing us to create programs for PBM members that are difficult for any of our competitors to match. For example, clients have the opportunity to change their benefit structure to substantially reduce or eliminate co-pays at MinuteClinic, which will encourage cost-effective member behaviors and expand access to highquality care. MinuteClinic also offers our PBM clients flu vaccination and biometric screening programs, injection training and on-site, employerbased clinics. 
Clients Are Embracing Our Unique Integrated Offerings While We Continue  to Expand Them
Our integrated offerings leverage the clinical expertise and insights from our PBM business along with the broad reach and face-to-face engagement in our retail business to deliver innovative solutions that are unmatched in the marketplace today. These solutions enhance access, lower health care costs, and improve health outcomes, and we have compelling data proving the efficacy of our unique programs. Among our integrated offerings, we have seen an enthusiastic response to our Pharmacy Advisor® program, which had more than 12 million lives enrolled at the end of 2011 after just one year of being broadly available. That represents approximately 20 percent of our PBM book of business. Capitalizing on our retail presence – unique among major PBMs – we can offer chronically ill patients the benefit of face-to-face counseling in our pharmacies to improve their medication adherence rates and close gaps in care. 
We are particularly encouraged that many new customers have opted to implement Maintenance Choice®. This program gives qualifying plan participants the option of filling their 90-day maintenance prescriptions by mail or at one of our convenient retail locations at the same co-pay and payor pricing as mail order, something that is very difficult for a standalone PBM or retailer to offer. Clients representing more than 10 million members adopted Maintenance Choice as of January 2012. Our new 
enhancements to this offering, which we have dubbed Maintenance Choice 2.0, have the potential  to more than triple the number of members participating in Maintenance Choice by making it more broadly available to the PBM book of business and also making it easier for consumers to use. You can read about Pharmacy Advisor and Maintenance Choice in more detail on pages 10-13.
In closing, I must extend my thanks to our 200,000 colleagues who are the collective face of CVS Caremark. Their dedication and commitment to our clients, customers, and communities continues to play an integral role in the success of our company. On behalf of them as well as our board of directors, thank you for your continued support of our vision of pharmacy care. After my first year as CEO, I am confident that CVS Caremark will make a real difference in the way health care is delivered in this country in the coming years. By capitalizing on our best-in-class businesses and our integration “sweet spots,” we will continue to innovate and reinvent pharmacy for better health ... and better shareholder value.
