Dear Fellow Shareholders:
Health care delivery in the United States is going through a period of rapid change. This is being driven primarily by the ongoing implementation of the Affordable Care Act, along with an aging population, a growing shortage of primary care physicians, rising prevalence of chronic disease, and shifts in consumer and patient behavior. Some 30 million Americans are expected to gain health care coverage in the coming years as a result of the new legislation and demographic shifts. Despite health reform legislation, health care costs are projected to continue to rise at an unsustainable pace, putting the nation’s long-term fiscal health at risk. 
We are well-positioned to thrive in this changing environment and to achieve our purpose of helping people on their path to better health. We are a pharmacy innovation company, and with our unmatched breadth of assets we are bringing innovative solutions to the marketplace. These solutions enhance access to care, lower costs, and improve health outcomes – and they are sought after by providers, payors, and patients alike. 
Our PBM is a leader in clinical and specialty pharmacy programs and has strong positions in the growing Medicare Part D and Managed Medicaid markets. Our retail presence – 7,400 stores and counting – allows us to engage directly with five million customers daily. In addition, MinuteClinic®, the nation’s largest retail medical clinic system, continues to enter new markets, expand services, and increase its growing number of affiliations with leading health care systems.
Our unmatched business model enables us to offer products and services that are difficult for our standalone competitors to replicate. For example, we have developed solutions such as Pharmacy Advisor® to address gaps in care and medication non-adherence that no other pharmacy company presently offers. Our capabilities in this area are critical because patients who do not adhere to their prescription drug regimens cost the U.S. health care system an estimated $300 billion annually in avoidable health care costs.
Before I expand on these and other topics, I want to provide a brief overview of our 2012 results. By virtually any measure, the past year was an outstanding one for CVS Caremark.
Solid growth and significant free cash flow are  driving shareholder value Net revenues increased 15 percent to a record  $123 billion in 2012. Excluding the loss on early extinguishment of debt during the fourth quarter, adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations rose 22.8 percent to $3.43. We achieved solid growth in our core pharmacy services and retail businesses, and our stores captured a significant share of Express Scripts members during its impasse with Walgreens.  We also controlled expenses and increased productivity across the enterprise.
Our shares performed well, returning 20.3 percent for the year. That surpassed the total returns of both the S&P 500 Index and Dow Jones Industrial Average over the same period. In fact, we outperformed these broader indices on a three- and five-year basis as well. 
We remain focused on enhancing shareholder value by driving productive, long-term growth, generating significant cash flow, and optimizing capital deployment. In 2012, free cash flow totaled $5.2 billion and we returned more than $5.1 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. We increased our quarterly dividend by 30 percent in 2012, and we recently announced another 38 percent increase for 2013. This most recent increase allows us to meet the low end of our 25 to 30 percent dividend payout ratio target two years early and marks our 10th consecutive year of dividend increases.
With our strong balance sheet and investment grade credit rating, we also were able to take advantage of a favorable interest rate environment to refinance a portion of our long-term debt. Our enhanced debt structure will help improve earnings and further enhance our free cash flow in future years.
Our PBM won business across customer segments and is well-positioned in major growth areas Our integrated model has been embraced by the marketplace and now represents a sustainable competitive advantage in the industry. Clients recognize that our differentiated PBM offerings such as Pharmacy Advisor and Maintenance Choice® can make a real difference in enhancing access, lowering health care costs, and improving health outcomes.
We’ve grown our PBM book of business by approximately 50 percent since 2010, delivering $24 billion of net new business over this period. In the 2013 selling season, we retained 96 percent of our book of business.  We also won well over $4 billion in gross new business and approximately $400 million in net new business. It’s worth noting that these gains came across customer segments, including employers, commercial health plans, Medicare Part D, and Medicaid. 
Medicare has quickly emerged as a major payor for prescription drugs in the United States, and our PBM is currently a strong number three player in the Part D market with roughly 6.5 million lives. This includes the lives we serve through our SilverScript prescription drug plans, as well as other lives where we serve as the PBM for health plan clients. With baby boomers turning 65 at the rate of 10,000 people per day, along with their growing utilization of prescription medications, we see the Medicare market as an attractive growth area.
Managed Medicaid represents another critical growth segment for us, as health care reform could add up to 15 million new lives to Medicaid rolls in the coming years. We are currently the clear leader in the Managed Medicaid PBM market with an estimated 31 percent share. We have continued to win new clients and have also seen existing clients expand membership as states move from a fee-for-service model. Our success is due in part to our ability to tailor our programs and operations to support the unique needs of this segment. 
Our specialty pharmacy business continues to grow rapidly, with enterprise-wide specialty revenues of more than $18 billion in 2012. The specialty market is expected to grow to approximately $120 billion in 2016, roughly double the size of the market in 2010. That means that by late 2016, it could account for roughly one-third of total pharmacy spend in the United States. This rapid increase in specialty drug costs presents challenges for our clients, so we have expanded our capabilities to manage specialty trend across the entire continuum of pharmacy and medical benefits. When 
implementing our programs, which include Specialty Guideline Management, exclusive pharmacy networks, and site of care management, clients can save up to 12 to 16 percent on their specialty spend. 
There is plenty of other good news coming out of our PBM, from our collaboration with Aetna to our streamlining initiative. The latter, which involves rationalizing our mail order pharmacies, streamlining operations, and consolidating our claims adjudication systems, is on track to deliver $1 billion in cumulative cost savings over the five-year period ending in 2015.
CVS/pharmacy® gained share and outperformed competitors on key metrics Our retail business continued to fire on all cylinders in 2012, and we gained market share in both the pharmacy and the front of the store. In fact, our retail share of the prescription drug market has grown two percentage points in the past two years to reach more than 21 percent. We also far outpaced our peer group with 9.1 percent growth in prescriptions dispensed. Even factoring out the prescriptions gained during the Express ScriptsWalgreens impasse, our underlying pharmacy growth led the industry.
Our focus on excellence in patient care is a key driver of our strong performance in the pharmacy. As part  of our patient care initiatives, our pharmacy teams performed 72 million customer interventions in 2012. Interventions like these keep our adherence rates well above all other pharmacy retailers, helping our patients stay healthy and driving savings for payors.
Another way in which we can control health care costs is by moving patients to lower-cost, generic drug alternatives when available and clinically appropriate. Given that generics produce greater profits for us than branded drugs, we can improve profitability even as we lower costs for patients and payors. The opportunity for us in this area remains significant for the next few years.
The ExtraCare® loyalty program and our store brands continued to drive front store gains In the front of the store, our 3.4 percent rise in same  store sales led the industry in 2012. We continue to use our ExtraCare loyalty program to help deliver a more personalized experience to each customer. We have been building, refining, and perfecting this industry-leading program for 15 years. Today, we have 70 million active cardholders who accounted for 84 percent of front-store sales during the past year.
We leverage the insights gained from card use to support each of these customers with promotions targeted to their specific tastes and needs. We’ll be taking our efforts to the next level in the coming year by, among other things, personalizing the digital circular customers see when logging onto the ExtraCare page at CVS.com® and by offering incentives that encourage customers to shop categories that are new to them.
The insights gleaned from ExtraCare also helped provide a foundation for the myCVS clustering initiative currently underway. In brief, we’ve begun to tailor our merchandise mix and remodel store layouts to match the needs of customers within certain trade areas. For example, we began rolling out what we call our “urban cluster” in 2011. Designed as a general store for dense trade areas, this concept increases our consumable offerings and also features faster checkouts. We had 450 of these stores in place at the end of 2012, and they saw notable sales and margin gains. In 2013, we expect to convert another 85 stores to the urban format. Building upon the success we’ve experienced with these urban cluster stores, we’re currently experimenting with other clusters to better tailor our stores to match our customer base.
Our store brands represent another opportunity to enhance customer value while increasing profitability. These products are sold under a variety of proprietary labels such as Gold EmblemTM and Just the BasicsTM. They represent more than 17 percent of our front store sales, and they accounted for 26 percent of our front  store sales growth over the past four years. We have an 
aggressive plan in place to improve both the quality and packaging of our store brands, and we believe that they can reach at least 20 percent of front store sales in the next few years. 
As we work to drive growth in existing stores, we have also continued to open locations and to enter new markets. In 2012, we opened 150 new or relocated stores in the United States. Factoring in closings, net units increased by 131 stores. That equates to 2.1 percent retail square footage growth for the year, in line with our annual goal. 
Moreover, our acquisition of privately held Drogaria Onofre in January 2013 marked our first foray into drugstore operations outside the United States. This transaction includes 44 retail locations in and around Sao Paulo, Brazil, which we view as a highly attractive growth market. I’ve said many times that our approach to international expansion would be measured and that we will continue to exercise strong financial discipline. Onofre, with its strong reputation, represents an excellent opportunity to grow the business over time.
MinuteClinic’s expansion included increased focus on non-acute care, new locations, and health system affiliations A year from now, millions of Americans will begin to gain access to coverage as part of U.S. health care reform. This coming growth in demand will further exacerbate the current shortage of primary care physicians. Our expanding network of MinuteClinic locations will help address both the access issues related to this shortage as well as the rising cost of delivering care.
The largest and fastest-growing retail medical clinic provider in the country, MinuteClinic has approximately 640 locations within CVS/pharmacy stores in 25 states and the District of Columbia. Each offers convenient, cost-effective care seven days a week without appointment. Insurers understand MinuteClinic’s value proposition, which is why visits are covered by more than 250 different commercial and government health plans.
MinuteClinic’s 2,000 nurse practitioners and physician assistants have cared for nearly 15 million patients, more than eight million of them in the past three years alone. Although acute care accounts for the majority of visits, non-acute services such as immunizations, physicals, and chronic disease monitoring have increased at a compound annual growth rate of 41 percent over the past three years. In 2012, these services accounted for about 17 percent of total volume, a figure that should continue to rise in the coming years. 
We expect to open 150 new clinics in 2013, with a  long-term goal of operating 1,500 clinics in more than  35 states by 2017. MinuteClinic’s expanding footprint  supports our growth strategy on a number of fronts. Collaborating with our PBM on service offerings  strengthens our appeal and value proposition to  regional and national accounts. It also increases MinuteClinic’s value as a partner to some of the  nation’s leading health systems and positions us to  play an important role in new health care delivery  systems, such as accountable care organizations.
We are keenly focused on future growth opportunities Given all the change that is underway in health care, it is critically important that we are able to pivot to serve the changing needs of our clients and customers. We believe that our business model is well aligned with the longer-term trends in the industry and uniquely positions us to drive value for our clients and customers in this rapidly changing environment. Given this, we’ve done  a substantial amount of work to more clearly define our long-term strategic growth framework to ensure that we capitalize on these significant opportunities. 
Our enterprise growth strategy represents not a change, but an evolution of our thinking. We’ve defined a threepronged strategy to capitalize on market opportunities we foresee with our unique suite of assets:
•		First,	we	will	create	greater	health	care	value	by	increasing the convenience and quality of care; we are expanding and differentiating our services for better health at lower costs. 
•		Second,	we	will	serve	new	and	existing	customers	in	new ways; our teams from across the enterprise are focused on identifying and targeting opportunities to better serve the fastest-growing customer segments. •		And	third,	we	will	optimize	our	enterprise	assets	by	delivering innovative solutions that leverage our unmatched breadth of capabilities.
As we look ahead, our strategic growth framework will provide the lens through which we will make strategic investments and prioritize initiatives. We plan to grow share organically in our core businesses, and we will make investments and use bolt-on acquisitions to advance faster in areas with higher market momentum. We expect that this strategy will lead to continued healthy earnings growth and substantial free cash flow, which we will deploy to enhance shareholder value. 
In closing, I want to thank our board of directors for their valued support throughout the year. I also want to thank all the other stakeholders that contribute to CVS Caremark’s success – from our shareholders and customers to our more than 200,000 colleagues. Our people are helping us change the definition of pharmacy care, and they are positioning us to play a major role in the evolving delivery of health care in the United States.
