Dear Fellow Shareholders:
The U.S. health care landscape is currently undergoing its most transformative change in  decades, due in large part to the implementation of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). More than 30 million Americans are expected to gain health care coverage by 2018, with enrollment expansion occurring primarily through Medicare, Medicaid, and the public exchanges. Health care consumers are taking on greater responsibility for choosing their own plans and controlling costs – what we’re calling the “retailization” of health care. In this environment, payors and physicians are increasingly looking for new ways to improve the health care value equation.
As a pharmacy innovation company, CVS Caremark has the unique combination of ability and agility needed to capitalize on these changing market dynamics. Our PBM business serves more than 63 million plan members and has strong positions in the rapidly growing Medicare, Medicaid, and specialty pharmacy markets. Through our 7,600 retail pharmacies, we engage directly with more than five million customers daily. We also operate the nation’s largest retail medical care clinic, with 800 MinuteClinic® locations. The combination of these assets allows us to offer innovative and cost-effective solutions that enhance access to care and deliver better health outcomes to our clients and customers – all while we gain a greater share of their pharmacy and health care spend.
Integrated pharmacy health care model is driving significant shareholder value This letter will expand on these and other topics shortly. First, I want to share some highlights of our outstanding 
results in 2013. They reflect our ongoing focus on the three pillars that we consider keys to enhancing value  for CVS Caremark shareholders:
• Driving productive, long-term growth;
• Generating significant free cash flow; and 
• Optimizing capital allocation.
Net revenues for the year increased 3 percent to a record $127 billion, while adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations rose 23 percent to $4.00. We achieved solid growth enterprise-wide, gaining share in claims dispensed and managed.  
CVS Caremark dispensed more than 80 percent of prescriptions with generic drugs in 2013, thereby lowering costs for patients and payors while driving greater profitability. Despite an unprecedented level of brand-to-generic conversions in 2012 and 2013, we still anticipate significant new generic introductions over the next few years. We recently announced an exciting 10-year agreement with Cardinal Health to form the largest generic-sourcing entity in the United States. We will collaborate with generic manufacturers to develop innovative purchasing methodologies, improve supply chain efficiencies, and use our compelling scale to create attractive offerings for these suppliers.
The power of our integrated model has created a sustainable competitive advantage for us. This is highlighted by the growth of CVS/pharmacy’s share of our own PBM’s retail network claims. That figure has jumped from 19 percent in 2008 – just following our merger – to  30 percent in 2013. This is a clear indicator that our channel-agnostic approach is better positioned to capture share over the long-term, regardless of changes in payor mix, plan design strategies, or patient preferences. 
We generated $4.4 billion in free cash flow in 2013, and we returned more than $5 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. We increased our quarterly dividend by 38 percent in 2013 and recently announced another 22 percent increase for 2014, which marks our 11th consecutive year of increases. This recent dividend increase should allow us to achieve a 25 percent payout ratio sometime this year, up from 14 percent in 2010. Looking forward, we recently set a target payout ratio of 35 percent by 2018 as we continue to focus on returning value to our shareholders. Furthermore, after spending approximately $11 billion on share repurchases from 2011 through 2013, our board of directors recently authorized a new $6 billion share repurchase program. Our current plans call for the repurchase of approximately $4 billion of our shares in 2014, consistent with last year.
Our 2013 acquisitions of Drogaria Onofre and NovoLogix,  and of Coram, which closed in January 2014, offer good examples of how we apply disciplined capital allocation practices to supplement existing assets and bolster our offerings. Drogaria Onofre, a 46-store retail drugstore chain in Brazil, represents our first retail foray into the international markets, while NovoLogix and Coram have broadened our already compelling specialty solutions.
Our focus on enhancing shareholder value paid off handsomely in 2013, with our shares producing a total return to shareholders of 50.4 percent for the year. That 
far surpassed the total returns of both the S&P 500 Index and Dow Jones Industrial Average over the same period. We have outperformed these broader indices on a three-, five-, and 10-year basis as well.
Our differentiated PBM offerings continue to  gain momentum Our PBM business posted another strong year in 2013 with nice momentum heading into 2014. For the 2014 selling season, gross new business wins totaled $5.3 billion. Factoring in a 96 percent retention rate, we gained approximately $2.4 billion in client net new business for 2014. Not reflected in that number is  $1.3 billion in lost revenue in 2014 resulting from last year’s Medicare Part D sanction. I’m pleased to report that the sanction was lifted on January 1, 2014, and  that we have once again started enrolling new members into our SilverScript prescription drug plans (PDPs) as they age into the Medicare program.
Although price is still a very important part of their decision process, clients are telling us that we’re also being selected because of the unique capabilities we deliver. Among them, our Pharmacy Advisor® program helps participating plan members with certain chronic diseases, such as diabetes and cardiovascular conditions, to identify gaps in care, adhere to their prescribed medications, and better manage their health conditions. We have also expanded this program to Medicare beneficiaries, which is helping health plan clients achieve better clinical star ratings. 
Maintenance Choice® remains a unique offering in the market that no competitor has been able to replicate. It allows plan members to receive their 90-day maintenance prescriptions by mail or at one of our convenient retail stores for the same price. Client adoption has risen significantly over the past two years, with 17 million members currently enrolled, up 55 percent in that time frame. Moreover, significant opportunity for growth remains, with potential adoption among current clients representing up to a total of 34 million members.
Regarding our long-term partnership with Aetna, we  have successfully completed the migration of Aetna’s commercial membership to our destination platform.  Aetna’s Medicare Part D business will transition in  January 2015. With the Aetna commercial business  now on our platform, Aetna has the ability to market  CVS Caremark’s integrated offerings as well.  
Back in 2010, we undertook an extensive PBM streamlining initiative that included consolidating our facilities, redesigning our pharmacy front-end processes, opening two new automated mail order pharmacies, and consolidating our claims adjudication systems. These programs are on track to deliver cumulative savings of more than $1 billion by the end of 2015.
Our comprehensive specialty offering helps improve outcomes and lower costs Specialty pharmacy continues to grow at a much faster rate than the pharmacy industry overall, with industry projections for this market to grow from $92 billion in 2012 to $235 billion by 2018. By that time, specialty pharmaceuticals are expected to account for 50 percent of the total spent on drugs in the United States. CVS Caremark’s specialty business is growing faster than the overall market, with specialty revenues expected to reach $26 billion in 2014. 
Many believe that specialty medications represent the pinnacle of achievement in biologic science and have revolutionized the treatment of a host of debilitating and life-threatening illnesses. At the same time, managing these expensive agents and the specialty patient population brings its own share of complexities, and our clients are clamoring for help in controlling the rapidly rising costs. 
 CVS Caremark has assembled what we believe to be  the most complete and coordinated solution in our industry 
 to address the needs of specialty patients and payors. 
Our solutions include comprehensive trend management in which CVS Caremark aggressively manages all drugs irrespective of route of administration or site of service,  or whether a drug is covered by the medical or pharmacy benefit. Our acquisition of the NovoLogix technology gives us automated medical claims management capabilities that no other large PBM offers.
Our differentiated clinical care model integrates our Accordant® rare disease care management services to enhance care and reduce costs. Our clinical model can reduce total health care spending for specialty patients by as much as 11 percent. Through our Specialty 
Connect™ integrated delivery option, patients also have the flexibility to receive their drugs by mail or at one of our stores. This program is analogous to Maintenance Choice. Our pilot launch of Specialty Connect has revealed that half of specialty patients prefer to pick up their drugs at a CVS/pharmacy location and that this program is helping to drive improved adherence rates.
Finally, our acquisition of Coram has significantly expanded our capabilities in the infusion market. Coram serves 165,000 patients annually through its 85 branch locations and 600 home infusion nurses around the country. Coram also complements our existing specialty competencies, creating cross-selling opportunities and making us a compelling option for narrow networks that are trying to improve outcomes while driving down costs. 
CVS/pharmacy® stores are in the right growth  markets and outperforming competitors on  medication adherence Our retail business posted solid results in 2013, especially given the continued evidence of a cautious consumer. Same-store sales grew by 1.7 percent overall, with the pharmacy up 2.6 percent and the front  of the store down 0.5 percent. 
Our stores now command a 21.3 percent share of the U.S. retail prescription drug market, and we are poised to capitalize on health care reform over the next few years. With 30 million Americans expected to gain health care coverage through the public exchanges and the expansion of Medicaid, we believe that we are well-positioned with the power and reach of our brand, as well as the trusting relationships that exist between our 23,000 pharmacists and millions of patients. 
Turning to our real estate program, we opened 247 new 
 or relocated stores in 2013. Factoring in closings, net units increased by 156 stores. That equates to 2.4 per- cent retail square footage growth for the year, in line with  our annual goal. We expect to continue to expand our retail square footage at roughly the same pace going forward. Looking at just the top 10 states that are expect- ed to see the largest increases in their insurance rolls – California, Texas, and Florida topping the list – we already have strong market positions with plans to expand in counties where the greatest opportunities exist.
Our pharmacists executed close to 80 million live clinical interventions during the year. That helped CVS/pharmacy deliver best-in-class adherence results compared to our top three retail competitors in areas that include diabetes therapy, cholesterol therapy, and blood pressure therapy. Among patients that take medication for high blood pressure, our adherence rate translates into the prevention of 20,000 heart attacks, 5,000 strokes, and 3,000 deaths each year. These outcomes are obviously meaningful to our patients and their families. They also broadly benefit a health care system that incurs $300 billion in avoidable medical costs each year due to medication non-adherence.
ExtraCare® and store-brand initiatives continue to drive profitable sales in the front of the store Our ExtraCare loyalty program has been a key driver of our profitable front store sales, and it is helping us deliver a more personalized experience to each customer. The industry’s longest-running loyalty program, ExtraCare  has 70 million active cardholders who accounted for  70 percent of front store transactions during the past year. These cardholders get two percent back every  day and received $3.6 billion in ExtraBucks savings  and rewards in 2013.
It’s important to note that we have spent 16 years gathering insights and perfecting ExtraCare, which means that no competitor can match the depth of our customer analytics. We’ve leveraged our ExtraCare insights to convert customers to categories they shop elsewhere, to launch personalized digital circulars, and to tailor our merchandise mix to better meet customer needs.
Our store and proprietary brands represent another key driver of profitable front store sales growth. These products are sold under a variety of proprietary labels such as Gold Emblem™ and Essence of Beauty® and accounted for 17.8 percent of front store sales in 2013. Importantly, they also provide significantly higher margins than national brands while saving our customers money. We have an aggressive strategy in place to move their penetration to well over 20 percent in the next few years.
MinuteClinic® provides unmatched offerings to our PBM clients and aligns with leading health systems MinuteClinic today represents a small percentage of our revenues, but it is significant to our overall health care 
strategy and is expected to play an important role in the rapidly evolving health care system. Our 2,200 nurse practitioners and physician assistants provide high-quality, affordable walk-in medical care services seven days a week without appointments. With more than 800 clinics currently in 28 states and the District of Columbia, MinuteClinic is expected to grow to 1,500 locations in over 35 states by 2017. Through this expanding network of locations, MinuteClinic will play an important role in helping alleviate the growing shortage of primary care physicians in the United States, especially as more people obtain health insurance.
MinuteClinic now has more than 30 major health system affiliations, adding seven in 2013 alone. We are working with the nation’s leading health care systems to ensure that patients receive high-quality, cost-effective care at the appropriate site of service. MinuteClinic is becoming an integral part of the services these organizations offer as they develop accountable care organizations, patient-centered medical homes, and other new models of care. In addition to providing care for common acute illnesses, injuries, and skin conditions, MinuteClinic offers chronic disease and wellness services while integrating medical records with primary care providers. As we look for new ways of improving care while lowering costs,  we will offer innovative new services such as TeleHealth™ at MinuteClinic, which is currently being piloted in  certain markets. 
The new health care environment presents growth opportunities across our enterprise With health care reform and major demographic shifts underway in the United States, our industry landscape is poised to change significantly in the coming years. There are a number of moving parts related to coverage expansion, and the initial rollout of the ACA has come with its challenges. That said, we continue to expect that coverage expansion will provide a long-term tailwind for the industry. The importance of government payors and health plans is clearly rising, and we believe that CVS Caremark is very well-positioned for this trend. 
We have strong positions in the Medicare and Medicaid markets across both our retail and PBM businesses. Let’s look at Managed Medicaid, where 30 million  people are currently enrolled. This number is expected to increase to 43 million people by 2016. Growth will come from the continuing transition of fee-for-service Medicaid members to Managed Medicaid as well as from new enrollees resulting from the ACA’s expanded eligibility. CVS Caremark is the clear market leader among Managed Medicaid PBMs with a 28 percent share of covered lives, and our capabilities will help us maintain this position. We also have a 20 percent share of Medicaid prescription volumes through our retail stores. Our retail footprint and capabilities give us an opportunity to gain even greater share as Managed Medicaid providers show an interest in narrowing their retail pharmacy networks to save costs.
The Medicare Part D market remains a very important part of our growth strategy as well. With 15 million people aging into Medicare by 2020, drug spending in the Medicare space is expected to grow at an 8.6 per- cent compounded annual growth rate. We remain the number three player in the PBM market, covering 6.8 million lives through our SilverScript product or through our health plan clients where we serve as the PBM.
We will also participate in coverage expansion through both public and private health insurance exchanges. Looking at the private exchanges, we can reach active employees not only through our commercial health plan partners, but also through direct relationships on key exchanges. We connect with Medicare-eligible retirees through our MA-PD and PDP health plan partners and our CVS Caremark SilverScript PDP. Looking at public exchanges, our PBM covers 70 percent of the eligible exchange population through our health plan customer relationships. Access to the exchange population rises further if you factor in states where we have CVS/pharmacy preferred-network relationships.
With the growth in exchanges and government lines of business, our ability to serve health plans whether or  not they are PBM clients is increasingly important. Leveraging our retail footprint, we can support health plan marketing initiatives ranging from limited pilot marketing programs to full-scale educational programs. Some of our health plan partnerships also include participation in preferred or restricted pharmacy networks. Many plans are taking advantage of MinuteClinic’s convenient and affordable services as well as cost-saving PBM 
services and programs to better manage rising specialty pharmacy costs. 
Our recently announced decision to remove cigarettes and all tobacco products from our store shelves by October 2014 has generated an overwhelmingly positive response from customers, health plan and employer clients, legislators, and public health and Medicaid officials. They all see the health benefit of this move and the role that pharmacy can play in smoking cessation. Some 16 million people in this country already have at least one disease from smoking, and it still accounts for approximately 480,000 deaths each year. Simply put, the sale of tobacco is inconsistent with our corporate purpose of helping people on their path to better health. As the delivery of health care evolves with an emphasis on better health outcomes, reducing chronic disease, and controlling costs, we’re playing an expanded role in providing care through our pharmacists, nurse practitioners, and physician assistants. This significant action further distinguishes us in how we are serving our patients, clients, and health care providers, and better positions us for continued growth in the evolving health care marketplace. Although this decision will have some impact on revenues and profits, we believe that it is the right thing to do given our expanding role as a health care company. 
Clearly, we are in the midst of an exciting and pivotal moment for our company and our industry. In closing, I want to thank our board of directors, our shareholders, and the more than 200,000 colleagues who have played such an important role in CVS Caremark’s achievements. They have worked hard to develop our sustainable competitive advantage and to meet the needs of the health care system of the future.
