Dear Fellow Shareholders:
The past year has been a milestone year for our company as we continued to broaden our role as a pharmacy innovation company. The evidence can be seen everywhere—from the outstanding selling season of our pharmacy benefit manager (PBM) and formation of new health care alliances to the ongoing expansion of our retail pharmacies and the elimination of tobacco products from our stores. Importantly, we have changed our corporate name  to CVS Health.
Our company is at the forefront of an evolving health care landscape, and our new name underscores our commitment to helping people on their path to better health. We are delivering breakthrough products and services to increase access to care, improve health outcomes, and lower overall health care costs. We foresaw many of the changes occurring in health care, and we began assembling an unmatched suite of integrated assets back in 2007 that have positioned us to capitalize on the opportunities created, both now and in the future. CVS Health remains a one-of-a-kind company. Ours is the only integrated pharmacy model with a deep understanding of the diverse needs of consumers, payors, and providers, and these insights inform our innovative, channel-agnostic solutions.
We met our 2014 financial targets while creating  significant shareholder value Before expanding on these and other topics, I want to provide a brief overview of our strong financial performance in 2014. Once again, we met or exceeded all our key financial targets through our ongoing focus on the three pillars that we consider essential to maximizing shareholder value: driving productive, long-term growth; generating significant free cash flow; and optimizing capital allocation. Net revenues for the year increased nearly 10 percent to a record $139 billion, while adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations rose to $4.49—up 13.5 percent (excluding the loss on early extinguishment of debt in 2014 and the gain from a legal settlement in 2013). And we achieved this strong growth even after forgoing approximately 8 cents in earnings per share from exiting the tobacco category. We’ve benefited from a number of growth drivers, especially our ability to increase enterprise share of prescriptions dispensed through our many channels.    We also filled more than 80 percent of prescriptions using generic equivalents, which are more cost effective for patients and payors and are more profitable for  us than branded drugs. Looking ahead, more than  $40 billion of branded drugs are expected to lose patent protection and effectively be replaced by generic equivalents between 2015 and 2017. Furthermore, we completed the formation of our Red Oak Sourcing venture with Cardinal Health to create the largest generic sourcing entity in the United States. Our combined scale, along with our knowledge and expertise, should lead to even greater savings for our clients, their members, and CVS Health. We generated $6.5 billion in free cash flow in 2014 and once again returned more than $5 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. Our board of directors increased our quarterly dividend by 22 percent last year and recently approved a 27 percent increase for 2015. That marks our 12th consecutive year of increases and keeps us solidly on track toward our dividend payout ratio target of 35 percent by 2018. With our December 2014 announcement of a new  $10 billion share repurchase program, we began 2015 with approximately $12.7 billion available to repurchase CVS Health shares when we identify favorable opportunities. More than $7 billion is expected to be returned to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases in 2015. CVS Health shares produced a total return of 36.6 per- 
 cent in 2014. Over the same period, the S&P 500 Index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average returned 13.7 percent and 10.0 percent, respectively. We have outperformed these indices on a three-, five-, and  10-year basis as well. Our 2014 stock performance  
 also outpaced the 25.3 percent return of the S&P 500 Health Care Index.
Our core strengths and integrated offerings drove another successful PBM selling season Our CVS/caremark PBM offers competitive pricing, high levels of service and execution, and unmatched services that continue to resonate with payors. As a result, 2014 revenues increased by 16 percent to $88 billion in our Pharmacy Services segment. After a successful selling 
season, we started 2015 with $7.0 billion in gross new business spread among health plans, government payors, and employers. With a 96 percent retention rate, net new business for 2015 totaled $3.6 billion.  Clients value the strength of CVS/caremark’s adherence programs, specialty services, and advanced formulary strategies. Pharmacy Advisor, Maintenance Choice, Specialty Connect, and our other integrated offerings have played an increasingly important role in our ability to win and retain business. At present, no other PBM can offer these differentiated services and capabilities. Pharmacy Advisor, our industry-leading clinical program for plan members with chronic diseases, currently addresses diabetes, cardiovascular conditions, and eight other disease states. Now available to our Medicare and Medicaid plans as well, it is helping them improve the clinical star measures that impact their reimbursement rates. With more than 20 million plan members enrolled in Maintenance Choice in 2015, growth in participation has exceeded 85 percent in just three years. We are also seeing growing interest in our new Specialty Connect delivery option. Similar to Maintenance Choice, it offers specialty patients the flexibility to receive their prescriptions by mail or at one of our stores. CVS/caremark’s retail network claims have risen significantly over the past six years, from about 575 mil-   lion to 930 million prescriptions. Over the same period, CVS/pharmacy’s share of the CVS/caremark book of business has grown from 19 percent to approximately 31 percent. We are gaining a growing share of a growing business, highlighting the success of our channel-agnostic approach and the power of our integrated business model. PBM clients are also increasingly incorporating  CVS/minuteclinic services into their plans, improving member access to health care while lowering overall costs. For example, our pilot plan to reduce or eliminate co-payments for plan members now covers 1.2 million lives. That’s up from 88,000 in 2012. 
We are reinventing specialty with a unique suite  of assets to address rising costs Our specialty pharmacy business continues to grow rapidly, with revenues from the specialty drugs we dispensed and managed across the enterprise totaling  
 $31 billion in 2014. The overall specialty market is projected to reach $235 billion and 50 percent of total drug spend by 2018—compared with just 38 percent this past year—as utilization of costly new therapies increases. Hepatitis C drugs such as Sovaldi® and Harvoni™ as well as PCSK9 inhibitors, an anticipated new class of drugs for lowering cholesterol, are notable examples of high-cost therapies expected to drive the rapid growth in specialty pharmacy. This trend imposes a substantial burden on both patients and payors as they seek ways to control costs. Our clients count on us to manage these expensive specialty medications to ensure appropriate utilization through a combination of prior authorization, formulary management, and other innovative clinical programs. That’s why we’ve been working hard to reinvent specialty pharmacy.
In specialty, we led the market in 2013 with formulary strategies using clinically appropriate and cost-effective solutions and we continued to lead in 2014. We also have unparalleled capabilities to manage specialty patients holistically, not just their drug costs, and our clinical support and site-of-care management helps drive superior outcomes. We’ve integrated our Accordant rare disease care management services to enhance care and reduce costs, rolled out Specialty Connect, and made key acquisitions such as Coram and NovoLogix  to broaden our portfolio.
CVS/pharmacy posted solid results despite exit from tobacco category and continued to gain share CVS/pharmacy continued to gain market share in both the pharmacy and the front of the store in 2014 even as consumers remained cost conscious. Our core pharmacy business has grown three times faster than that of other drug chains over the same period, and we hold a 21 percent share of the U.S. retail prescription drug market. For the year, same-store sales rose 2.1 percent, with the pharmacy up 4.8 percent and the front of the store down 4.0 percent. Our underlying front store growth was obscured by the negative impact on revenue from exiting the tobacco category. It has now been five 
months since we became the first national pharmacy chain to eliminate cigarettes and other tobacco products from our shelves, a move that reflects our corporate purpose and is expected to help drive long-term growth. As expected, exiting the tobacco category will cost us approximately $2 billion in revenues on an annualized basis—$1.5 billion from tobacco sales specifically and approximately another $500 million from the rest of those shoppers’ baskets. That amounted to about 8 cents in earnings per share in 2014, and it is expected to cost an incremental 8 to 9 cents per share in 2015 for a total annual impact of approximately 17 cents per share. Yet our decision better aligns us with payors and providers as they search for ways to improve health outcomes  and control costs. That should make us a more attractive partner for dispensing and other services, ultimately helping us recapture this lost revenue elsewhere across the enterprise. Health and beauty remained key drivers of front store sales in 2014, with market shares rising to 36 and  40 percent, respectively. Our store brands continued  to generate profitable sales growth, accounting for  19 percent of front store sales. Given our success, we’ve set a new goal of increasing store brand penetration to 25 percent of front store sales. Like generic drugs in the pharmacy, store brands provide significantly higher margins than national brands while also saving our customers money. The past year saw  our successful launch of the Makeup Academy™  and radiance® PLATINUM lines as well as more than  40 items under the new Gold Emblem Abound™  healthy snack brand. As we look to the future, we will continue to provide our customers with additional healthy options. Our goal is to make CVS/pharmacy the convenience destination for more, better, and healthier choices. In research we have conducted since the tobacco announcement, customers have made healthy food their number one choice among offerings they would like to see added. Moreover, these products are less sensitive to promotion, which aligns with our strategy to drive profitable growth.
Our adherence programs and partnerships  are providing value to our PBM and non-PBM patients alike Our channel-agnostic pharmacy care model has played a key role in enhancing member services and driving share gains. Plan members are embracing our unique offerings, and we’ve also endeavored to improve our value to our retail customers who are covered by other PBMs. They are benefiting from our best-in-class clinical programs to help treat chronic conditions as well as from the innovative partnerships we have forged with providers and payors.   Adherence to prescription drug regimens is critical  to improving patient health and reducing costs, and  CVS/pharmacy’s adherence rates lead the industry. For example, our medication possession ratios for customers undergoing therapy for diabetes, high cholesterol, or high blood pressure are eight percentage points higher than those of our top three retail competitors. That translates into lower mortality rates, fewer heart attacks and strokes, better quality of life, and a reduction in overall health care costs. Among our partnerships, we’re working with hospital providers to ensure that patients have the proper outpatient medications in hand before discharge. We follow up after patients return home to answer questions and confirm medication adherence. With the rise of consumerism driven in large part by the increasing numbers of individuals in consumer-driven health plans, what we’re calling the retailization of health care,  CVS/pharmacy has also partnered with a number of health plan clients on a variety of initiatives that help them reach out to consumers directly. For example, we host in-store events to drive member acquisition and have launched a solution that enables health plan members to pay their insurance premiums at their local CVS/pharmacy. We’ve also introduced HeathTag®, which allows us to deliver messages from our health plan partners to patients, such as a reminder to get an A1C blood sugar screening when picking up a prescription. Importantly, these relationships position us to be anchors in their limited or preferred networks.
We continue to enter new markets and use ExtraCare to drive profitable growth The vast majority of the U.S. population lives within a few miles of a CVS/pharmacy, and we’ve continued to expand our footprint in existing markets as well as by entering new markets such as Seattle. Overall, we opened or acquired 184 new stores in 2014. Factoring in closings, net units increased by 162 stores. That equates to two percent retail square footage growth for the year, in line with our annual goal. Our September 2014 acquisition of Miami-based Navarro Discount Pharmacy® has strengthened our position in the Hispanic marketplace, the fastest growing demographic in the United States. Over the next decade, the U.S. Hispanic population is expected to increase by 25 percent to 71 million lives. Navarro has been serving Hispanic consumers for more than 50 years and now 
has 33 retail drugstore locations. We are leveraging its expertise to help make CVS/pharmacy stores in Hispanic neighborhoods across the country even more relevant to the customers we serve every day. In all our locations, the ExtraCare loyalty program continues to play an indispensable role in driving profitable front store sales. The industry’s longest-running loyalty program is now in its 17th year and was used in more than 80 percent of front store sales in 2014. It has allowed us to gather critical consumer insights that we use every day to enhance the CVS/pharmacy shopping experience and to invest in those customers who provide the most value. For example, we’re now leveraging the knowledge we’ve gained through ExtraCare to deliver personalized offers to our 70 million active cardholders. This includes 25 million e-mails a week and 90 million mail pieces annually. In 2014, cardholders redeemed a total of 38 million personalized coupons. The ongoing decline in newspaper circulation will only increase our advantage over competitors who rely more heavily on circulars to drive trips to their stores. As always, cardholders also get 2 percent back on purchases every day and received $4 billion in ExtraBucks® savings and rewards in 2014. CVS Health’s robust digital strategy empowers consumers to navigate their pharmacy experiences and manage their conditions through our online and mobile tools.  This includes the ability to get next-in-line text alerts at CVS/minuteclinic and, in the future, the ability to schedule appointments. Our mobile app has received critical acclaim for ease of use, while our text message program has experienced significant growth.
CVS/minuteclinic excels at customer  satisfaction while broadening its preventative  and chronic care offerings CVS/minuteclinic continued its rapid growth, ending the year with more than 970 clinics in 31 states and the District of Columbia, up from 800 clinics in the prior year. Since its inception, CVS/minuteclinic’s 2,700 nurse practitioners and physician assistants have provided care for more than 23 million patient visits. We will continue to add more locations and enter new markets in 2015 and remain on track to reach 1,500 locations by the end of 2017.   Along with our rapid growth, we have continued to deliver the high levels of satisfaction and quality for which CVS/minuteclinic is known. Our net promoter score, a third-party measure of how likely it is that our services would be recommended to friends or colleagues, has grown over the past two years. Among health care organizations, our scores are unmatched. Our own research published in the October 2014 edition of The American Journal of Managed Care shows that CVS/minuteclinic’s quality performance matches or exceeds that of other ambulatory care settings for three common health conditions.
Although CVS/minuteclinic is largely known for treating sore throats, ear infections, and other acute conditions, we are focused on expanding its scope of services. That includes adding chronic disease monitoring and treatment for conditions such as hypertension and hyperlipidemia. We have expanded our biometric monitoring, tobacco cessation, and weight loss programs. We undertake chronic care only when working with primary care doctors to complement the services they offer. Our affiliations with major health systems throughout the United States—and two-way integration of our electronic medical records—heighten our ability to provide collaborative care. We added 19 health systems in 2014, ending the year with 49 such affiliations.  
Growth of government programs and  exchanges presents significant opportunities  across our enterprise Government programs represent a tremendous growth opportunity for us, and we have strong positions in both the Medicare and Medicaid markets. The United States is in the midst of what we are calling a “silver tsunami,” with some 10,000 baby boomers turning 65 every day. This means that more than 17 million new people will be eligible for Medicare by 2019. CVS Health serves this market through our SilverScript Medicare Part D prescription drug plan, as the PBM for our health  plan Medicare clients, and through Employer Group Waiver Plans. 
As a result of the Affordable Care Act, we have seen significant growth in Medicaid over the past year with states expanding eligibility. This growth will likely continue as more states evaluate their Medicaid expansion decisions. At the same time, the growth of managed Medicaid over traditional fee-for-service models has been fueled by states seeking cost savings opportunities. CVS/caremark participates in managed Medicaid through health plan clients, and our 19 percent share makes us an industry leader. Medicaid also currently accounts for 14 percent of prescriptions dispensed at CVS/pharmacy locations. Our retail footprint and capabilities give us an opportunity to gain even greater share as managed Medicaid providers narrow their retail pharmacy networks to save costs. The next several years are expected to bring continued growth in the number of people seeking insurance through the public exchanges. Additionally, we believe some employers will explore private exchanges as a viable option to reduce health care spending for their retirees. CVS/caremark participates on the public and private exchanges on a carve-in basis with health plan clients. On the private exchanges, we also participate on a carve-out basis as a standalone PBM where we offer prescription benefits directly. We expect the growth in exchange lives to provide an incremental lift to our retail pharmacy as utilization increases. Clearly, we are seeing tremendous opportunities for growth throughout the enterprise, and I believe that our integrated model will allow us to take full advantage of them. In closing, I want to thank our board of directors and the 217,000 colleagues who work so diligently across CVS Health. They have committed themselves to our unique model of pharmacy care and have given us a compelling advantage in today’s marketplace. To my fellow shareholders, thank you for your continued confidence in our strategy.
